---
layout: post
title: My Experience With Bloc - Part 1
---

For several years I had been considering going to school for computer science. I was studying music in college at the time, and as much as I loved what I was doing I also wanted a job that felt secure and would provide well for my family. My dad has always worked in the computer industry; so being raised in a tech home made computer science seem like a natural fit. What I couldn’t face was going back to school for 4 more years to get another bachelor’s degree. I couldn’t stomach the thought of having to go through all of the same general studies classes again, doing the same busy work for countless hours while also attempting to learn something worthwhile about programming.

My wife had recently introduced me to a friend of hers that was an experienced developer. He was very encouraging and suggested I look at some coding boot camps to get me up and running. I started doing some research and was surprised at how many of these different companies existed! I was also surprised at how different all of them were. I felt lost in a sea of information. I knew that I was interested in learning about programming, but I had no idea what frontend, backend, fullstack, rails, and all of these other common terms were. Bloc caught my eye because of the length of their programs, and they offered what appeared to be a well-rounded program for a beginning developer.

I was still unsure of exactly what it was that I hoped to learn, but I attended the informational meetings that Bloc offers to explain to prospective students what their program entails. When I learned about their software development course I felt like that was the right path for me. I would learn about frontend and backend development, and hopefully finish with skills similar to someone that had completed their bachelor’s in computer science.

My first few weeks with Bloc felt like a whirlwind of information. I was enrolled in several online coding schools to learn the basics of HTML, CSS, JavaScript, the command line, and git.  Learning all of these things so quickly felt like drinking from a fire hose, but I liked that felling like I learned something valuable every day. I would lie in bed with everything I had learned that day running through my head. I would think about setting up for loops in JavaScript or how to modify elements with CSS. It was exhilarating to be learning so much, I felt like I could program anything! However, this was just an introduction to a language, and I had not yet tried to speak it. At this point I was introduced to Code Wars, and the reality of my inexperience with programming hit me like a ton of bricks.
