---
layout: post
title: My Experience At Bloc - Part 2
---

After spending a couple of weeks learning the basics of frontend web development, I was introduced to Code Wars to start putting the things I had learned to use. Code Wars is a site that allows users to create coding challenges for others to solve. Bloc had some specific challenges for me to start with that challenged me to think through simple problems to be solved with JavaScript. This was the first time that I had to solve a problem on my own while using code, and it was far more difficult than I expected! My experience with program so far had been following steps without requiring me to solve any problems on my own. Now I had to figure out a potential solution to the problem, as well as figure out the proper way to program the solution. Working this way with programming was so far removed from what I had experienced so far that I had a small existential crisis and questioned everything I thought I knew in life. I always considered myself a fairly intelligent person, but now I was trying to understand logic that seemed so foreign to me. Others made it look so simple, yet I struggled with some simple problems.

Thankfully, I would eventually be successful at solving problems on Code Wars and I would regain confidence that programming was something that I could do. I learned that not only do I need to know the language; I need to know the logic. Programming is problem solving, and I would need to learn how to work through the types of problems that I would encounter as a developer. I worked through several challenges on Code Wars, and my ability to think through a problem and implement code to solve the problem improved.

The next step Bloc asked me to take was to follow their tutorial to build a music playing website called BlocJams. This project was the first large project I would work on that incorporated HTML, CSS, and a large dose of JavaScript to make everything functional. The process would involve me following a bunch of steps to get things started, and then there would be assignments sprinkled throughout the project that required me to do some critical thinking and figure out how to implement some new features to the site. The assignments offered a similar challenge to me that I experienced with Code Wars; I would struggle to use something so new to me to accomplish what felt like a complicated task.

After completing BlocJams, Bloc had me refactor the entire site to use AngularJS. The refactoring process was a little confusing as I learned about all of the parts of the AngularJS framework, but incorporating it into an already functional site made the process much easier than if I was trying to create the content for the site at the same time. While I faced many points of frustration building BlocJams and refactoring it, in hindsight I can see that Bloc subjected me to some controlled growing pains to help me become a better developer.
