---
layout: post
title: My Experience At Bloc - Part 3
---

Throughout the program a mentor provided by Bloc has coached me. Before I started any coursework Bloc provided me with a list of their mentors that I could review and choose the mentor that I thought I would work well with. I don’t know if I got lucky or if all of the mentors at Bloc are exceptional, but I have been blessed to have a mentor as great as Kevin. He has been able to explain complicated subjects to me in simple terms, enabling me to grasp concepts that would otherwise be out of reach for me. He has helped me learn by never giving me the solution when I am stuck on something, but he will help me walk through any problem one step at a time.

I had mentioned to Kevin several times that I wanted to build an app that my drum teacher and I had thought of together, and he was very supportive of that endeavor and incorporated the development of that app into my coursework. With his help I have made my first app idea into reality, and it was a great learning experience. From the very beginning I had to identify all of the problems that I needed to solve and come up with ways to solve those problems. I’m glad that he allowed me to this project into my coursework, because I needed to step away from tutorials for a moment and practice my critical thinking skills more. This process also taught me about many development practices that I would not have know about otherwise. Kevin taught me about user stories and how to approach making a site that is compatible with different devices. I have a need to know how everything works before I feel comfortable with something. Kevin has been patient with me and answered every question I’ve had to so that I can work more autonomously and find more answers for myself.

I am sure that one of the keys to Bloc’s success is their mentorship program. I think I have learned just as much from my mentor meetings as I have from all of Bloc’s other materials, if not more. My mentor meetings are highlights of my week because I know I’ll get more valuable information there and will get any questions I might have answered. If Bloc didn’t offer the mentorship program, I don’t think I would have stuck with the development track as long as I have. There is a lot to be learned from going to school online, but I have greatly benefitted from having personalized instruction from my mentor. Thank you to all of those mentors out there that take the time to share your knowledge and experience with people like me.
